python/README.md, before:

[![PyPI version py_vapid](https://badge.fury.io/py/py-vapid.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/py-vapid/)

# Easy VAPID generation

This minimal library contains the minimal set of functions you need to
generate a VAPID key set and get the headers you'll need to sign a
WebPush subscription update.

VAPID is a voluntary standard for WebPush subscription providers
(sites that send WebPush updates to remote customers) to self-identify
to Push Servers (the servers that convey the push notifications).

The VAPID "claims" are a set of JSON keys and values. There are two
required fields, one semi-optional and several optional additional
fields.

At a minimum a VAPID claim set should look like:
```
{"sub":"mailto:YourEmail@YourSite.com","aud":"https://PushServer","exp":"ExpirationTimestamp"}
```
A few notes:

***sub*** is the email address you wish to have on record for this
request, prefixed with "`mailto:`". If things go wrong, this is the
email that will be used to contact you (for instance). This can be a
general delivery address like "`mailto:push_operations@example.com`" or a
specific address like "`mailto:bob@example.com`".

***aud*** is the audience for the VAPID. This is the scheme and host
you use to send subscription endpoints and generally coincides with
the `endpoint` specified in the Subscription Info block.

As example, if a WebPush subscription info contains:
`{"endpoint": "https://push.example.com:8012/v1/push/...", ...}`

then the `aud` would be "`https://push.example.com:8012`"

While some Push Services consider this an optional field, others may
be stricter.

***exp*** This is the UTC timestamp for when this VAPID request will
expire. The maximum period is 24 hours. Setting a shorter period can
prevent "replay" attacks. Setting a longer period allows you to reuse
headers for multiple sends (e.g. if you're sending hundreds of updates
within an hour or so.) If no `exp` is included, one that will expire
in 24 hours will be auto-generated for you.

Claims should be stored in a JSON compatible file. In the examples
below, we've stored the claims into a file named `claims.json`.

py_vapid can either be installed as a library or used as a stand along
app, `bin/vapid`.

## App Installation

You'll need `python virtualenv` Run that in the current directory.

Then run
```
bin/pip install -r requirements.txt

bin/python setup.py install
```
## App Usage

Run by itself, `bin/vapid` will check and optionally create the
public_key.pem and private_key.pem files.

`bin/vapid --gen` can be used to generate a new set of public and
private key PEM files. These will overwrite the contents of
`private_key.pem` and `public_key.pem`.

`bin/vapid --sign claims.json` will generate a set of HTTP headers
from a JSON formatted claims file. A sample `claims.json` is included
with this distribution.

`bin/vapid --sign claims.json --json` will output the headers in
JSON format, which may be useful for other programs.

`bin/vapid --applicationServerKey` will return the
`applicationServerKey` value you can use to make a restricted
endpoint. See
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PushManager/subscribe
for more details. Be aware that this value is tied to the generated
public/private key. If you remove or generate a new key, any
restricted URL you've previously generated will need to be
reallocated. Please note that some User Agents may require you [to
decode this string into a Uint8Array](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/push-notifications/blob/master/app/scripts/main.js).

See `bin/vapid -h` for all options and commands.

## CHANGELOG

I'm terrible about updating the Changelog. Please see the [`git
log`](https://github.com/web-push-libs/vapid/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed)
history for details.

Commit message:

chore: Jul 2022 update
Now that this is one of the Critical Projects (thanks?) I should
update it to be more modern, clean up some of the crap, and
run it through flake8 at least.

python/README.md, after:

# Easy VAPID generation

[![PyPI version py_vapid](https://badge.fury.io/py/py-vapid.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/py-vapid/)

This library is available on [pypi as py-vapid](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/py-vapid).
Source is available on [github](https://github.com/mozilla-services/vapid).
Please note: This library was designated as a `Critical Project` by PyPi, it is currently
maintained by [a single person](https://xkcd.com/2347/). I still accept PRs and Issues, but
make of that what you will.

This minimal library contains the minimal set of functions you need to
generate a VAPID key set and get the headers you'll need to sign a
WebPush subscription update.

VAPID is a voluntary standard for WebPush subscription providers
(sites that send WebPush updates to remote customers) to self-identify
to Push Servers (the servers that convey the push notifications).

The VAPID "claims" are a set of JSON keys and values. There are two
required fields, one semi-optional and several optional additional
fields.

At a minimum a VAPID claim set should look like:

```json
{"sub":"mailto:YourEmail@YourSite.com","aud":"https://PushServer","exp":"ExpirationTimestamp"}
```

A few notes:

***sub*** is the email address you wish to have on record for this
request, prefixed with "`mailto:`". If things go wrong, this is the
email that will be used to contact you (for instance). This can be a
general delivery address like "`mailto:push_operations@example.com`" or a
specific address like "`mailto:bob@example.com`".

***aud*** is the audience for the VAPID. This is the scheme and host
you use to send subscription endpoints and generally coincides with
the `endpoint` specified in the Subscription Info block.

As example, if a WebPush subscription info contains:
`{"endpoint": "https://push.example.com:8012/v1/push/...", ...}`

then the `aud` would be "`https://push.example.com:8012`"

While some Push Services consider this an optional field, others may
be stricter.

***exp*** This is the UTC timestamp for when this VAPID request will
expire. The maximum period is 24 hours. Setting a shorter period can
prevent "replay" attacks. Setting a longer period allows you to reuse
headers for multiple sends (e.g. if you're sending hundreds of updates
within an hour or so.) If no `exp` is included, one that will expire
in 24 hours will be auto-generated for you.

Claims should be stored in a JSON compatible file. In the examples
below, we've stored the claims into a file named `claims.json`.

py_vapid can either be installed as a library or used as a stand along
app, `bin/vapid`.

## App Installation

You'll need `python virtualenv` Run that in the current directory.

Then run

```python
bin/pip install -r requirements.txt

bin/python setup.py install
```

## App Usage

Run by itself, `bin/vapid` will check and optionally create the
public_key.pem and private_key.pem files.

`bin/vapid --gen` can be used to generate a new set of public and
private key PEM files. These will overwrite the contents of
`private_key.pem` and `public_key.pem`.

`bin/vapid --sign claims.json` will generate a set of HTTP headers
from a JSON formatted claims file. A sample `claims.json` is included
with this distribution.

`bin/vapid --sign claims.json --json` will output the headers in
JSON format, which may be useful for other programs.

`bin/vapid --applicationServerKey` will return the
`applicationServerKey` value you can use to make a restricted
endpoint. See
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PushManager/subscribe
for more details. Be aware that this value is tied to the generated
public/private key. If you remove or generate a new key, any
restricted URL you've previously generated will need to be
reallocated. Please note that some User Agents may require you [to
decode this string into a Uint8Array](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/push-notifications/blob/master/app/scripts/main.js).

See `bin/vapid -h` for all options and commands.

## CHANGELOG

I'm terrible about updating the Changelog. Please see the [`git
log`](https://github.com/web-push-libs/vapid/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed)
history for details.
